[ SIREN WAILS ]
[ POLICE RADIO CHATTER ]
[ CAR ALARM BLARING ]
Buzz: LIEUTENANT?
LIEUTENANT.
OH, BUZZ.
UH, THERE'S MORE BLOOD
OVER THERE.
Tao:
THE EDGING ON THIS PUDDLE
SUGGESTS SOMETHING
WAS DRAGGED THROUGH IT.
CHECK OUT THE BLOOD
ON THE VICTIM'S KNEES.
HE WAS CRAWLING FOR HIS LIFE.
SIX CASINGS TOTAL
FROM A 9mm, SIR.
Sykes: THE REST PROBABLY STAYED
IN THE SHOOTER'S VEHICLE.
I COUNT 18 IMPACT POINTS
FROM THERE...
TO THE OTHER END
OF THE BUS STOP OVER THERE.
[ POLICE RADIO CHATTER ]
WIDE-ARRAY PATTERN.
Hobbs: AND WHAT DOES THAT MEAN,
LIEUTENANT, WIDE ARRAY?
THAT WHEN THE KILLER
FIRED HIS WEAPON,
HE WAS POSSIBLY TOO PREOCCUPIED
TO AIM PERFECTLY.
PREOCCUPIED BY WHAT?
OPERATING HIS VEHICLE --
A COMMON PROBLEM
WITH DRIVE-BYS.
GANGSTERS AREN'T REALLY
CRACK SHOTS.
AND HOW MANY BULLETS IN THAT
WIDE ARRAY HIT CURTIS WYATT?
THREE.
TWO FLESH WOUNDS
TO THE VICTIM'S UPPER LEFT LEG
AND RIGHT STOMACH AND ONE
DEEPER WOUND IN HIS NECK.
DR. MORALES, ARE YOU SAYING
THAT CURTIS WYATT BLED TO DEATH?
NOT IN THE USUAL WAY.
THE LAST BULLET OPENED
HIS RIGHT INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN
AND PULSED INTO HIS LUNGS.
IN LAYMAN'S TERMS, THE VICTIM
DROWNED IN HIS OWN BLOOD.
MR. WYATT, WAS YOUR SON
EVER INTERESTED IN GANGS?
ONLY IN
HOW TO AVOID THEM.
WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF TUESDAYS,
MY SON CURTIS
WAS A "STREETLIGHT KID."
I AM SORRY, MR. WYATT.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN
BY A STREETLIGHT KID?
HE WAS IN THE HOUSE
BY DARK.
BUT ON TUESDAYS --
AND IT WAS A TUESDAY,
SO IT WAS THE LONGEST DAY
AT SCHOOL FOR HIM.
SO, ON TUESDAYS...
HE USUALLY GOT IN THE HOUSE
AROUND 9:00 P.M.
MR. WYATT, DID YOUR SON
ASSOCIATE WITH GANGS?
NO. HE WASN'T
LIKE YOUR CLIENT.
HE DIDN'T WANT TO HURT PEOPLE.
OBJECTION, YOUR HONOR.
Judge Richwood:
MR. WYATT,
YOU MUST STICK
TO "YES" AND "NO" ANSWERS,
AND THE JURY WILL DISREGARD
THE CHARACTERIZATION
OF THE DEFENDANT AS SOMEONE
WHO WANTED TO HURT PEOPLE.
MS. ALVARADO.
THAT'S ALL, MR. WYATT.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, I SAW LUIS
DRIVING AROUND MY HOOD --
HIM AND SOME CHICK.
IS THIS THE CAR
YOU IDENTIFIED TO POLICE
AS LUIS NAVARRO'S?
YEAH.
DUDE'S THE ONLY VATO
LAME ENOUGH
TO PUT DOLLAR RIMS
ON HIS SORRY-ASS HONDA.
[ LAUGHTER,
INDISTINCT SHOUTING ]
Man: SHUT UP!
YOU DON'T KNOW
WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT!
KNOCK IT OFF, OR I'LL START
CITING PEOPLE FOR CONTEMPT.
MS. ALVARADO, YOUR WITNESS.
MR. JOHNSON,
DID YOU SEE LUIS NAVARRO
SHOOT CURTIS WYATT?
NO.
I JUST SAW THAT PUNK
DRIVING IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
AND SOME GIRL
RIDING SHOTGUN.
I TOLD YOU.
CAN YOU NAME THIS GIRL?
NO.
NO MORE QUESTIONS,
YOUR HONOR.
PROSECUTION, REDIRECT?
UH, UH,
NO, YOUR HONOR.
GREAT.
THE WITNESS MAY STEP DOWN.
THE COURT WILL RECESS
AN HOUR AND A HALF FOR LUNCH.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
SO, SYKES AND SANCHEZ
WENT TO PICK UP CLAUDIA GOMEZ
AT HER SISTER'S HOUSE,
AND...
CLAUDIA'S BABY WAS THERE,
BUT NO CLAUDIA.
OH, MY GOD.
WELL, HOLD ON, ANDREA.
CLAUDIA'S SISTER DIDN'T SAY
WHERE SHE WAS GOING?
NO,
CLAUDIA SAID SHE WAS SICK
AND WENT OFF TO BE ALONE
OR SOMETHING.
LUIS' GANG GOT TO HER,
MA'AM.
WELL, WITHOUT CLAUDIA HERE
TESTIFYING
THAT SHE WAS IN THE CAR
WITH LUIS WHEN HE SHOT CURTIS,
OUR WHOLE CASE
FALLS APART.
CAN YOU GET US
A CONTINUANCE?
[ SIGHS ]
MAYBE UNTIL TOMORROW.
OKAY.
I'LL LET YOU KNOW.
GOOD JOB, HOBBS.
BUT THESE GANGSTERS
ARE GETTING RESTLESS.
YOU NEED A FEW MORE
SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES IN HERE
TO HOLD THE FORT.
ED, YOU'VE BEEN A COURT WATCHER
FOR FIVE YEARS NOW.
HAVE YOU EVER ONCE SEEN
A FIGHT IN THE GALLERY?
YOU MIGHT HAVE THE REST
OF THE DAY OFF, ANYWAY.
EXCUSE ME.
YOU'RE ASKING
FOR A CONTINUANCE?
WHY?
WHERE'S YOUR WITNESS?
HOBBS?
WHERE'S YOUR WITNESS?!
Gomez: YOU FORCED MY SISTER
TO LIE TO ME
AND SAY MY BABY
WAS GOING TO THE HOSPITAL
JUST BECAUSE I DIDN'T
SHOW UP IN COURT?
WHAT KIND OF PEOPLE DO THAT, YO?
AT CHRISTMAS?
THE KIND OF PEOPLE
WHO WANT TO SEE LUIS NAVARRO
GO TO JAIL
FOR WHAT HE DID.
AND YOU'RE ONE
OF THOSE PEOPLE, CLAUDIA.
AT LEAST YOU USED TO BE.
[ BUTTON CLICKS ]
REMEMBER?
Gomez: LUIS TOLD ME
WE WERE GONNA DRIVE AROUND,
HAVE SOME FUN.
THEN OUT OF NOWHERE
HE JUST SHOOTS OUT MY WINDOW,
SHOOTS THIS BLACK KID.
HE TOLD ME...HE'D KILL ME
IF I EVER TOLD ANYBODY.
AND I WAS PREGNANT.
Sanchez: IN ORDER NOT TO ARREST
YOU AS AN ACCESSORY, CLAUDIA,
YOU NEED TO TESTIFY
TO ALL OF THIS IN COURT.
CAN YOU DO THAT?
YES.
OKAY, YEAH.
THAT KID...
...HE WAS JUST WAITING
FOR THE BUS.
YOU KNOW?
SHOT TO DEATH
WAITING FOR A BUS.
IS THAT THE KIND OF WORLD
YOU WANT TO RAISE
YOUR LITTLE GIRL IN?
[ Crying ] NO.
[ BREATHES SHAKILY ]
BUT THAT'S THE WORLD WE LIVE IN.
WE DON'T GOT
NO OTHER WORLD.
YOU BACK OUT NOW, YOUNG LADY,
YOU'RE GOING TO JAIL.
AND WHO WILL TAKE CARE
OF YOUR BABY THEN?
Hobbs: STATE AND SPELL YOUR NAME
FOR THE COURT, PLEASE.
CLAUDIA. CLAUDIA GOMEZ.
C-L-A-U...
[ Shakily ]
...D-I-A.
[ Echoing ]
...G-O...
[ Normal voice ]
...M-E-Z.
MS. GOMEZ, WERE YOU WITH
THE DEFENDANT LUIS NAVARRO
ON MARCH 13th
OF THIS YEAR?
CLAUDIA.
[ Echoing ] WERE YOU WITH
LUIS NAVARRO ON MARCH 13th?
[ Normal voice ]
MS. GOMEZ. MS. GOMEZ.
YOUR HONOR.
THE WITNESS WILL ANSWER
THE QUESTION.
WERE YOU WITH MR. NAVARRO
ON MARCH 13th?
MS. GOMEZ,
DO YOU REMEMBER BEING
WITH MR. NAVARRO
ON MARCH THE 13th?
I TRIED COMPELLING HER
TO ANSWER.
BEYOND CITING HER FOR CONTEMPT,
THERE'S NOTHING ELSE I CAN DO.
CAPTAIN.
YOUR HONOR, WE HAVE
CLAUDIA'S TAPED STATEMENT
IDENTIFYING LUIS NAVARRO
AS THE KILLER IN THIS INSTAN--
EXCUSE ME, YOUR HONOR,
THERE ARE ONLY TWO REASONS
CLAUDIA'S TAPED STATEMENT
WOULD BE ADMISSIBLE --
"A," TO IMPEACH HER TESTIMONY,
WHICH SHE HASN'T GIVEN,
OR "B," TO REFRESH
HER RECOLLECTION,
WHICH SHE HAS NOT SHARED.
YOUR HONOR, CLAUDIA'S
NONCOMPLIANCE IS OBVIOUSLY
PART OF A DELIBERATE STRATEGY
BY THE DEFENSE TO SABO--
DOES THE STATE HAVE ANY DIRECT
EVIDENCE OF WITNESS TAMPERING?
LUIS NAVARRO
SHOT AND KILLED
AN UNARMED YOUNG MAN
IN COLD BLOOD, JUDGE.
THEN YOU BETTER HOPE THE JURY
RETURNS A VERDICT OF GUILTY
WITHOUT THIS GIRL'S TESTIMONY,
BECAUSE WE DON'T HAVE IT.
OH, AND MS. ALVARADO,
IF I SHOULD FIND OUT
THAT YOU HAD ANYTHING TO DO
WITH CREATING THIS SITUATION,
GOD HELP YOU.
LET'S FINISH UP.
IN THE ABOVE AND TITLED ACTION,
WE, THE JURY, FIND
THE DEFENDANT, LUIS NAVARRO,
IN THE CHARGE
OF FIRST-DEGREE MURDER...
...NOT GUILTY.
WHOO! WHOO!
[ INDISTINCT SHOUTING ]
[ GAVEL BANGING ]
LUIS NAVARRO,
YOU ARE FREE TO GO.
YEAH! WHAT UP, MAN?!
[ SHOUTING CONTINUES ]
[ IMITATES GUNSHOT ]
[ BLOWS ]
[ SHOUTING CONTINUES ]
ARE YOU CELEBRATING?
YOU CELEBRATING NOW?
JOE.
JUST YOU WAIT!
YOU KILLED MY BOY!
JOE, THAT'S IT.
COME ON.
[ INDISTINCT SHOUTING ]
Woman: THAT WAS THE SCENE
AT THE COURTHOUSE TODAY
AS SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES
QUICKLY RESTORED ORDER
AND MADE SEVERAL ARRESTS
FOR ASSAULT
AFTER LUIS NAVARRO
WAS FOUND NOT GUILTY
OF MURDERING CURTIS WYATT,
SEEN HERE IN HIS HIGH-SCHOOL
GRADUATION PICTURE.
CURTIS WAS BRUTALLY GUNNED DOWN
AT A BUS STOP LAST MARCH
IN A GANGLAND-STYLE DRIVE-BY.
THE SCENE AT THE COURTHOUSE
WAS CHAOTIC
AFTER THAT VERDICT WAS REA--
[ TV TURNS OFF ]
ENOUGH OF THAT.
YOU REMEMBER TOMORROW'S
MY LAST DAY
WORKING ON
"BADGE OF JUSTICE," RIGHT?
OH, RIGHT.
AND YOUR FRIEND...
JEFF. YEAH.
HE'S COMING IN TO TAKE PICTURES
OF THE MURDER ROOM
FOR THEIR
SET DEC DEPARTMENT
BEFORE THEY SHUT DOWN
FOR THE HOLIDAYS.
THAT'S STILL OKAY, RIGHT?
YOU'LL BE AROUND?
UNLESS WE HAVE A GANG WAR,
SURE.
GOD. IT'S NO WONDER
YOU LIKE TO MAKE DEALS.
BUT I-I THOUGHT
WITNESSES HAD TO TESTIFY.
OR PAY THE PRICE.
WE ARRESTED CLAUDIA TODAY.
AND SHE WILL GO TO PRISON
AS AN ACCESSORY TO MURDER.
AND UNFORTUNATELY,
THE KILLER...
WALKS AWAY FREE.
HOW IS THAT RIGHT?
THE LAW IS NOT
ABOUT RIGHT OR WRONG.
IT'S ABOUT RESOLVING CONFLICTS
IN A CIVILIZED MANNER.
IF WE WANT
THE JUSTICE SYSTEM TO WORK...
WE HAVE TO STAND BESIDE IT
WHEN IT DOESN'T GO OUR WAY.
[ HORN HONKS ]
Provenza: [ HUMMING ]
UM, THIS WAS ON THE PRINTER.
IS IT YOURS?
UH, AN APPLICATION
FOR RETIREMENT.
NOW, WHY WOULD YOU THINK
THIS WOULD BE MINE?
WAIT A MINUTE.
HE'S TAKING
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE WYATTS
HARDER THAN I THOUGHT.
QUIET ABOUT THIS.
QUIET.
WELL, YES.
[ Chuckling ] YES,
I'M STILL HERE, BUT -- OH.
WELL -- WELL, THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE IT.
CAPTAIN, IT WOULD APPEAR
THAT OUR CRIME-SUPPRESSION UNITS
FROM S.O.B. ARE HAVING
THE DESIRED EFFECT
IN OUR
GANG NEIGHBORHOODS.
YEAH.
STILL JUST A BAND-AID.
THE WYATT FAMILY
DESERVED BETTER THAN THIS.
YES, THEY DID. JULIO?
NOTHING WE CAN FOLLOW UP ON
WHERE LUIS IS CONCERNED,
BUT RIGHT NOW HE'S FEELING LIKE
HE CAN GET AWAY WITH ANYTHING.
Rusty: MOM.
HE'LL DO SOMETHING ELSE
STUPID, MA'AM.
MOM.
THAT'S WHAT I'M AFRAID OF.
HEY, MOM?
MOM, UH,
THIS IS MY FRIEND JEFF
I WAS TELLING YOU ABOUT
FROM "BADGE OF JUSTICE."
OH, YES. JEFF, HI.
HI.
NICE TO MEET YOU.
OH, IT'S NICE TO MEET YOU,
TOO, CAPTAIN.
UH, CAN I JUST SAY YOU HAVE DONE
SUCH A GOOD JOB WITH THIS KID.
I, UH -- I BET HE KNOWS
MORE ABOUT POLICE WORK
THAN OUR WRITERS.
HEY! LIEUTENANT MIKE!
Tao: HEY, JEFF.
WELCOME
TO THE REAL L.A.P.D.
AH. THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, "BECKIN'S" DESCRIBED
THIS PLACE TO ME SO WELL
I COULD PROBABLY MOVE AROUND IT
WITH MY EYES CLOSED.
UH, OH, I GOT MY CAMERA HERE.
IS IT OKAY IF I JUST TAKE
A FEW PHOTOGRAPHS?
YEAH, IF YOU LET ME REVIEW THEM
BEFORE YOU LEAVE.
RIGHT, BECKIN?
OH!
OH, THAT'S MY NICKNAME
AT WORK.
WELL, IT'S --
IT'S "BECK AND CALL"
BECAUSE HE'S ALWAYS THERE
WHEN WE NEED HIM.
HE'S GOT
A GREAT A WORK ETHIC.
HE, UH -- HE --
HE NEVER COMPLAINS.
HE'S ALWAYS UPBEAT -- JUST
POSITIVE, POSITIVE, POSITIVE.
WE LOVE IT.
WHY DON'T WE START OFF IN THE,
UH, ELECTRONICS ROOM?
UH, WAIT A SECOND. I NEED
TO SHUT DOWN THE MONITORS.
SURE.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL, IT WAS A PLEASURE
TO MEET YOU. THANK YOU.
SO, YOU'RE "BECKIN,"
AND I'M "MOM."
I DON'T WANT TO, LIKE,
BOTHER HIM
WITH EVERY LITTLE DETAIL
OF MY PERSONAL LIFE.
[ INHALES DEEPLY ]
CAPTAIN,
FLAG ON THE PLAY.
FIRE DEPARTMENT SAYS
WE MAY HAVE
A GANG-RELATED ARSON/HOMICIDE
ON OUR HANDS.
[ SIGHS ]
Provenza: OKAY.
UH, AFTER FIRE PUT OUT THE CAR,
PATROL RAN THE PLATES.
IT'S REGISTERED TO LUIS,
THE RIMS LOOK RIGHT,
AND HE DROVE IT HOME
YESTERDAY.
BUT IS THIS LUIS
IN THE TRUNK?
UH, IT'S TOUGH TO SAY, MA'AM,
BUT IF IT IS, WATCH OUT.
GOD ALMIGHTY. WE'RE GONNA NEED
SOME DENTAL RECORDS.
WELL, THERE WAS DEFINITELY AN
ACCELERANT USED INSIDE AND OUT.
GASOLINE?
YEAH, I'M THINKING
IT'S SOMETHING LESS EXPLOSIVE,
LIKE LIGHTER FLUID.
HOW MUCH
FOR A FIRE LIKE THIS?
ABOUT A GALLON OR MORE.
BUT IN THE BACK,
THE BURN IS NOT TOTAL,
AND THE ONLY FUEL IN THE TRUNK
IS THE BODY.
THERE'S SOME DENTS
ON THIS METAL.
DO YOU THINK LUIS WAS ALIVE
BEFORE THIS FIRE WAS LIT?
MM-HMM,
AND TRYING TO GET OUT, YEAH.
OH, MY GOD.
WELL,
HE TURNED DOWN HIS DEAL.
WE MAY HAVE
OUR IGNITING DEVICE.
PATROL
FOUND THIS LIGHTER
ON THE GROUND ABOUT
15 FEET FROM THE CAR.
Sanchez: WELL,
LET ME CALL GANG INTELLIGENCE
AND SEE IF ANY
OF THE NORMANDIE 1-9s
LIKE TO PLAY WITH FIRE,
MA'AM.
SHOULDN'T WE DISCUSS
ALTERNATIVE SUSPECTS?
YES, YOU'RE RIGHT, AMY.
THIS IS UGLY.
AND CURTIS' FATHER, JOE WYATT,
HE WAS VERY ANGRY.
NO, NO, NO.
YEAH.
I-I SPOKE TO ESTELLE WYATT
THIS MORNING
JUST TO SEE
HOW THEY WERE HOLDING UP,
AND SHE AND JOE TOOK THE KIDS
TO DISNEYLAND FOR A FEW DAYS.
WELL, BUT HE'S STILL
A POTENTIAL SUSPECT.
I KNOW.
LOOK, I'VE GOTTEN TO KNOW
THE GUY PRETTY WELL NOW,
AND I CONVINCED HIM
TO GO TO AA BEFORE THE TRIAL,
SO HE'S BEEN SOBER A FEW MONTHS,
AND HE'S OUT OF TOWN.
SO BEFORE WE START IN
ON JOE WYATT,
LET'S CANVASS THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND SEE IF ANYBODY SAW LUIS.
TALK TO WHOEVER YOU WANT.
JUST KEEP LUIS NAVARRO'S NAME
OUT OF IT.
DEPUTY CHIEF HOWARD,
WHAT CAN WE DO FOR YOU?
IF WORD GETS OUT THAT LUIS IS
DEAD BEFORE WE FIND THE KILLER,
S.O.B. WILL HAVE A GANG WAR
ON OUR HANDS.
I'VE GOT ALMOST HALF
MY UNIFORMED OFFICERS
ON THE STREET AT RISK.
WE NEED TO KEEP THIS VERY QUIET.
[ SIREN CHIRPS ]
I'VE GOT A FLATBED
ON ITS WAY IN
TO TOW THIS CAR
OUT OF HERE RIGHT NOW.
BUT, CHIEF, WE ARE STILL
PROCESSING THIS CRIME SCENE.
I'M SURE BUZZ HAS ALREADY
FULLY DOCUMENTED THE EVIDENCE.
I'VE GOT ABOUT -- I DON'T
KNOW -- 70% OF WHAT I NEED.
WELL, THEN YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES
TO GET THE REST, SO HURRY UP.
CHIEF, THESE GUYS
ARE FAR MORE EXPERIENCED
WITH ARSON THAN YOU ARE.
IF YOU MOVE THIS CAR NOW --
CAPTAIN, I AM PULLING
THIS CRIME SCENE.
S.O.B. CAN'T AFFORD
TO LET THE SITUATION
GET OUT OF CONTROL.
STAY CALM, CHIEF.
STAY CALM.
Flynn: OH, MY GOD.
JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT
THIS JOB COULDN'T GET ANY WORSE.
CAPTAIN, THERE IS A FIRE GUY
IN THE NORMANDIE 1-9s --
SIGNS HIS WORK
WITH A RED METAL LIGHTER.
WHAT'S HIS NAME?
MAURICE WASHINGTON,
A.K.A. "ZIPPO."
ACCORDING TO THE CASE FILE,
ZIPPO AND A COUPLE OF 1-9s
BEAT A RIVAL GANG MEMBER
TO DEATH,
THEN TOSSED HIM IN A CAR TRUNK
AND SET IT ON FIRE, MA'AM.
BUT ZIPPO
WAS NEVER CONVICTED?
NO,
HIS MAMA ALIBIED FOR HIM,
SAID HE WAS WITH HER
THE NIGHT OF THE MURDER.
I'VE ASKED
FOR THE COURT RECORDS,
BUT IT LOOKS LIKE ZIPPO
GOT HIMSELF A SEPARATE ATTORNEY
AND THE OTHER TWO GUYS
WENT DOWN FOR IT.
I MEAN,
CHECK OUT THIS RAP SHEET.
HE HAS WALKED AWAY FROM
THREE OTHER ARSON ARRESTS.
[ KNOCK ON DOOR ]
DISPATCH JUST SENT ME A 911
AUDIO FILE FROM LAST NIGHT.
YOU GUYS MAY HAVE AN EYEWITNESS
TO YOUR MURDER.
OPERATOR:
911, what's your emergency?
MAN: I-I-I just watched
these three black gangsters
pull a gun on this --
this -- this Mexican guy
a-and beat him up
until he couldn't move anymore.
Then they threw him in the
trunk of a car and took off.
Sir, can you describe
the vehicle?
Oh, the car has those,
uh, uh -- What do you call it?
Uh, dollar hubcaps.
Uh, you guys got to do
something about this.
I mean, seriously.
Sir, can you give me
your name? Sir? Sir?
AND THAT'S IT.
SO, MR. "I MEAN, SERIOUSLY"
DIDN'T LEAVE A NAME?
YOU DO HAVE A NUMBER, THOUGH?
I DO.
HERE, I'LL TRY TO TRACE IT.
[ DOOR OPENS ]
WE DROPPED ZIPPO
IN INTERVIEW 1,
BUT HE ASKED
FOR HIS ATTORNEY
WHILE WE WERE
READING HIM HIS RIGHTS.
I MEAN, LET'S JUST ARREST
THIS FREAK.
HE'S GOOD FOR IT.
AND FRANKLY,
YOU DON'T NEED TO DEAL
WITH HIS LAWYER.
WHY? WHO IS IT?
[ ELEVATOR BELL DINGS ]
HMM.
AH, RUSTY BECK.
[ SIGHS ]
THE L.A.P.D.'s
VERY OWN OLIVER TWIST.
AND A MERRY CHRISTMAS TO YOU,
TOO, MR. SCROOGE.
Jeff: WHO WAS THAT?
OH. UH,
THAT'S MY MOM'S EX-HUSBAND.
OH. SHE WAS MARRIED TO SOMEONE
ELSE BEFORE SHE MET YOUR FATHER?
THE SHORT ANSWER TO THAT
IS YES.
OH.
Flynn: SHOULD HAVE KNOWN
A KILLER LIKE ZIPPO
WOULD HAVE A LAWYER
LIKE YOU.
WHY, THANK YOU
FOR THE COMPLIMENT, ANDY.
AND NOW YOU MIGHT
WANT TO EXPLAIN WHY YOU BARGED
INTO MY CLIENT'S HOUSE
AND DRAGGED HIM DOWNTOWN
DURING THE HOLIDAYS.
AND YOU MIGHT
WANT TO SPEAK QUICKLY
BECAUSE MY FIRM
REPRESENTS MAURICE
IN A FALSE-ARREST CIVIL SUIT
AGAINST THE L.A.P.D.,
ASKING FOR $3 MILLION.
BUT WE'LL SETTLE
FOR $2 MILLION.
MAURICE, REMEMBER,
NO TALKING.
[ CHUCKLES ]
ALWAYS TOUGH FIRST TIME YOU RUN
INTO AN EX AFTER A DIVORCE.
I CAN SUMMARIZE
FOR YOU LATER.
NO, IT'S JUST GONNA
HAPPEN AGAIN.
I CAN'T LEAVE EVERY TIME.
AND WITH THIS CONTINUED
POLICE HARASSMENT...
WHY DON'T YOU CHECK
WITH DR. MORALES
AND SEE IF WE HAVE AN I.D.
ON OUR VICTIM YET?
...WE JUST MIGHT HAVE TO
UP IT TO $5 MIL.
AN I.D. THAT WE'RE NOT
GONNA RELEASE.
1-9s' RETALIATION
ENDS HERE.
STAY IN TOUCH, CAPTAIN.
YES, SIR.
SO, WHAT'S UP?
MEMBER OF A RIVAL GANG
WAS FOUND BURNED UP
IN THE TRUNK OF A CAR.
SOUND FAMILIAR?
HOW DID HE BURN?
Jack:
MAURICE, NO TALKING.
MY CLIENT LEFT THE GANG LIFE
YEARS AGO.
YOU CAN'T
DRAG MAURICE DOWN HERE
EVERY TIME
A CAR CATCHES ON FIRE,
SO EITHER ARREST HIM
OR LET HIM GO.
UH, WHERE WAS HE
LAST NIGHT?
I WAS AT MY MOM'S
WATCHING TV.
SHE'LL TELL YOU
THE SAME THING.
SPENDING QUALITY TIME WITH
HIS MOTHER DURING THE HOLIDAYS.
IT'S, UH...
IT'S WHAT LIFE'S
ALL ABOUT.
WELL, DO YOU WANT TO
CONFER WITH YOUR CLIENT
ABOUT THIS RED LIGHTER
THAT WE FOUND
AT A MURDER SCENE
THIS MORNING?
MM. SHARON.
NEED TO TALK TO YOU.
AH.
[ CHUCKLES ]
YOU AND I BOTH KNOW THAT FINDING
THE RED CIGARETTE LIGHTER
IS MERELY CIRCUMSTANTIAL.
SO, I-I THOUGHT, OUT OF RESPECT
FOR OUR LATE MARRIAGE,
THAT YOU COULD
RELEASE MY CLIENT
AND I WOULDN'T
HAVE TO ADD
THIS ABUSE OF POWER
TO THE CIVIL SUIT.
OKAY, JACK.
I'LL RELEASE ZIPPO.
MM.
BUT YOU MAY
WANT TO TAKE HIM
SOMEPLACE
WHERE HE CAN LIE LOW.
PERHAPS
YOUR APARTMENT?
WHAT?
[ Laughing ] WHY?
WELL, THE BURNT-UP CORPSE
THAT WE DISCOVERED
MAY START A GANG WAR,
AND I HAVE A WITNESS
WHO SAW IT ALL GO DOWN,
SO REMIND ME --
IF ZIPPO SHOT AND KILLED
IN RETALIATION FOR THIS MURDER,
THAT AFFECTS
YOUR CIVIL SUIT...HOW?
YEAH. OKAY.
YOU HOLD HIM,
CHECK OUT HIS ALIBI,
AND DO WHATEVER
YOU HAVE TO DO
JUST SHORT OF CHARGING HIM
WITH MURDER.
WELL, THANK YOU
FOR YOUR COOPERATION.
OH, THANK YOU.
UH, SHARON. UM...
SINCE I AM COOPERATING...
MM.
...AND THE KIDS ARE COMING HOME
FOR THE HOLIDAYS NEXT WEEK,
I THOUGHT
IT MIGHT BE NICE
IF YOU ASKED EMILY
TO BUNK WITH ME.
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
WITH EMILY, CALL HER YOURSELF.
Provenza: THOUGH THERE ARE
MANY THINGS ABOUT HIM
WE MAY NEVER UNDERSTAND,
DENTAL RECORDS CONFIRM
THAT THE BODY IN THE TRUNK
IS LUIS.
SO WE WON'T HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT HIM ANYMORE.
CAUSE OF DEATH?
WELL, DON'T KNOW.
MORALES IS STILL SCRAPING
THE BODY OUT OF THE CAR.
SO FAR,
IT'S JUST A BROKEN ARM.
Flynn:
WELL, IT MAKES SENSE.
ACCORDING TO OUR MISSING 911
CALLER, LUIS WAS BEING BEATEN.
SO IF HE CAN
IDENTIFY ZIPPO,
THEN WE CAN FINALLY HAVE
SOMETHING WORTH CELEBRATING.
YES.
A MISSING WITNESS
WOULD PROVE
VERY USEFUL
RIGHT ABOUT NOW.
[ CELLPHONE CHIMES ]
MIKE. HOW ARE WE DOING
WITH THAT 911 CALLER?
Tao: SORRY.
IT'S A BURNER PHONE.
NOT IMPOSSIBLE TO FIND OUT
WHERE IT WAS SOLD,
BUT I'LL HAVE TO GET LUCKY.
Sykes: BETTER HURRY.
I JUST GOT AN E-MAIL
FROM THE LOS ANGELES TIMES
ASKING US TO COMMENT
ON THE ARSON-RELATED DEATH
OF LUIS NAVARRO.
DAMN IT.
HOW DO THEY FIND THAT OUT?
DOESN'T MATTER.
IT'S A GANG WAR NOW.
GOD. SOMETIMES I WONDER
WHY WE EVEN TRY.
Shh, shh, shh.
Oh, I'm sorry.
WHAT? WHAT'S GOING ON?
THE CHICAGO AIRPORT CLOSED,
AND JEFF ALREADY SUBLET
HIS APARTMENT,
AND HE AND HIS BOYFRIEND
TOTALLY BROKE UP,
SO I TOLD HIM HE COULD CRASH
HERE INSTEAD OF A HOTEL.
[ STAMMERS ]
IS THAT OKAY?
YOU DON'T --
YOU DON'T MIND, RIGHT?
UH...NO. NOT REALLY.
BUT WHY --
WHY DID YOU --
WHY DID YOU GIVE HIM
YOUR BEDROOM?
ARE YOU KIDDING?
WHAT IF YOU HAD WALKED IN
AND FOUND HIM ON THE SOFA?
OH.
WHY ARE YOU SO LATE?
I WAS HUNTING DOWN
AN ANONYMOUS 911 CALLER
THAT REPORTED
OUR MURDER.
OH.
THAT'S HOW WE MET.
YES, IT IS.
[ CHUCKLES ]
SO, UM...
JEFF'S A LITTLE BIT OLDER
THAN YOU, ISN'T HE?
EIGHT YEARS.
THAT'S NOTHING.
OH.
AND I'M --
I'M VERY MATURE FOR MY AGE.
SO, ARE YOU GONNA
ASK HIM OUT?
WELL, NOW WOULD BE MY CHANCE,
BUT...WHAT IF HE SAID NO?
MM.
THEN HE MIGHT STOP
WANTING TO GET TO KNOW ME.
NOT THAT IT MATTERS,
ANYWAY.
AFTER TOMORROW,
HE'S GONE SO...
YOU HAVE THE HOLIDAYS.
THEN YOU START COLLEGE.
THERE WILL BE LIFE AFTER
"BADGE OF JUSTICE,"
I PROMISE YOU.
YEAH, BUT THERE'S
NOT GONNA BE ANOTHER JEFF.
HE'S --
HE'S ONE OF A KIND.
WELL, THEN THAT IS
ALL THE MORE REASON
TO ASK HIM OUT
AND SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
[ Singsong voice ]
GOOD NIGHT, BECKIN.
[ Mockingly ]
GOOD NIGHT, MOM.
[ CHUCKLES ]
HEY.
HMM.
ARE YOU SURE JEFF STAYING HERE
IS NOT A PROBLEM?
OH, IT'S FINE.
REALLY.
Sykes: LAST NIGHT,
WE RAN INTO A BIT OF A DILEMMA
AND A BRAND-NEW SUSPECT.
DOES THE SUSPECT
HAVE A NAME?
I'M TALKING ABOUT JOE WYATT,
CURTIS WYATT'S FATHER.
HE WAS ARRESTED LAST NIGHT
ON A D.U.I.,
AND HE HAD
AN UNREGISTERED .38
UNDER THE DRIVER'S SEAT
OF HIS CAR.
JOE TOOK HIS FAMILY
TO DISNEYLAND.
HIS WIFE LIED.
SHE AND THE KIDS ARE THERE.
JOE STAYED BEHIND,
WENT ON A BENDER,
AND THEN [SIGHS]
WHO KNOWS WHAT HE DID.
YE GODS.
THIS IS THE LAST THING FLYNN
NEEDS TO HEAR ABOUT RIGHT NOW.
I-I'M TELLING YOU, IF THIS CASE
GOES ON MUCH LONGER,
HE'S GONNA JUMP SHIP
AND RETIRE.
MAYBE Y-YOU SHOULD
TALK TO HIM ABOUT --
ABSOLUTELY NOT.
DO YOU THINK WE'VE REMAINED
FRIENDS ALL THESE YEARS
BY SHARING
OUR FEELINGS?
NO, NO. I-I'LL JUST
GO OVER TO THE JAIL.
I'LL TALK TO JOE.
NO, UH, LIEUTENANT FLYNN
BROUGHT JOE OVER ALREADY.
HE'S IN
AN INTERVIEW ROOM.
JULIO'S MIRANDIZING HIM
RIGHT NOW.
THIS ALL HAPPENED
HOURS AGO.
THE CAPTAIN CAME IN EARLY,
SO --
DO YOU UNDERSTAND
THAT IT'S DAYS LIKE THIS
THAT MAKE DETECTIVES
WANT TO JUST GIVE UP, RIGHT?
EVENTUALLY
IT BECOMES CLEAR
YOU'RE JUST PUSHING THE ROCK
UP THE HILL
SO IT CAN ROLL BACK DOWN
OVER YOUR HEART
AND CRUSH
YOUR LIFE'S WORK.
AFTER YOU, SYKES.
AFTER YOU.
[ DOOR CLOSES ]
WELL, I'M SURPRISED
TO SEE YOU HERE, JOE.
I THOUGHT YOU WERE
AT DISNEYLAND.
MY SON [SNIFFLES]
WAS MURDERED, ANDY.
AND THE KILLER THAT DID IT
GOT AWAY WITH IT.
SO I DIDN'T FEEL LIKE
GOING ON ANY STUPID RIDES.
WELL, DRIVING DRUNK
IS A PRETTY STUPID RIDE.
THAT MAKE ANYTHING BETTER?
IT DIDN'T MAKE IT
ANY WORSE.
Flynn:
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THAT.
WAIT TILL YOU GET YOUR NEXT
CAR-INSURANCE BILL.
ANY CLOSER TO FINDING
OUR 911 CALLER?
NO, BUT CONSIDERING THAT WE'RE
ONLY INVESTIGATING LUIS' MURDER
BECAUSE WE HAVE AN EYEWITNESS
WE COULDN'T COUNT ON,
I-I'M NOT SO SURE FINDING
THAT CALLER IS GONNA HELP.
I BEEN CATCHING UP WITH
SOME OF MY BARTENDING BUDDIES.
OH, GREAT.
TELL US WHICH BARTENDER
YOU WERE WITH
THE NIGHT BEFORE LAST.
[ CHUCKLES ]
THAT WAS ABOUT
30 BEERS AGO, MAN.
I DON'T REMEMBER.
WELL, DO YOU REMEMBER
WHY YOU HAD AN UNREGISTERED
.38 IN YOUR CAR?
THAT WASN'T MY GUN.
I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW IT WAS THERE.
I'D NEVER SEEN IT BEFORE.
YOU, UH, LOOK A LITTLE BEAT UP
THERE, JOE.
WERE YOU IN A FIGHT?
NO.
I FELL DOWN
WHEN YOUR L.A.P.D. BUDDIES
ASKED ME
TO STEP OUT OF MY CAR.
AND THEN I HAD A LITTLE TROUBLE
GETTING UP, ANDY,
WHEN THEY FREAKED OUT ABOUT
THE GUN THAT WAS IN THE CAR.
THAT'S ALL I REMEMBER.
WELL,
INSTEAD OF PUTTING YOURSELF
THROUGH ALL THAT CRAP,
WHY DIDN'T YOU CALL ME?
OH, UH, UH, SORRY.
CAPTAIN, DEPUTY CHIEF HOWARD IS
GOING TO BE OBSERVING US TODAY
IN THE HOPES
THAT WE CAN MAKE AN ARREST
AND S.O.B. CAN STAND DOWN.
WHAT, YOU WANT TO TAKE ME
TO SOME MEETINGS?
NO ONE WANTS THAT
MORE THAN WE DO, CHIEF.
WHO'S THAT?
YOU HAVE A NEW SUSPECT?
WHAT GOOD DID IT DO ME, MAN?!
HAVE YOU ARRESTED HIM?
NOT FOR MURDER.
WHY DON'T YOU HAVE A SEAT,
CHIEF?
OH, WHERE YOU ARE RIGHT NOW
IS BETTER,
SITTING WITH THE L.A.P.D. AND
BEING QUESTIONED FOR MURDER?
OH, KILLING LUIS,
THAT'S MURDER TO YOU?
WHO TOLD YOU LUIS WAS DEAD?
EVERYONE.
MY PHONE WAS BLOWING UP.
YEAH, BUT THE MOMENT
YOU FIRST HEARD ABOUT IT.
I WAS IN A BAR, ANDY.
SOMETIME LAST NIGHT.
SOME 1-9s WERE THERE.
ONE OF THEM CAME AND TALKED
TO ME ABOUT IT. HE TOLD ME.
WELL, WHY WERE YOU HANGING
WITH 1-9s?
I THOUGHT YOU WERE
UNAFFILIATED?
I WAS DRINKING!
WELL, WHAT WERE YOU GUYS DOING
ABOUT LUIS, ANYWAY?
NOTHING!
THAT'S WHAT YOU WERE DOING!
THEN THE NORMANDIES
TOOK CARE OF IT.
WELL, WHO TOLD YOU THAT THE
NORMANDIE 1-9s TOOK CARE OF IT?
DID THEY TELL YOU THAT?
IT WAS OBVIOUS.
ZIPPO IS A 1-9.
JOE WAS HANGING WITH THEM.
WE ALMOST
HAVE A CONNECTION.
IT WOULDN'T HURT TO GET
A WARRANT FOR JOE'S CELLPHONE
AND E-MAIL ACCOUNTS.
IF THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ABOUT,
I'M OUT OF HERE!
LOOK, I DON'T WANT TO TELL YOU
WHAT TO DO,
BUT IF YOU ARRESTED ONE OF THESE
TWO GUYS FOR MURDER,
I COULD SPEND
THE NEXT 48 HOURS SEARCHING
FOR OUR MISSING WITNESS
ON SAFER STREETS.
I GOT WHAT I WANTED.
[ Crying ]
THE PERSON WHO KILLED --
WHO --
WHO KILLED M-MY SON
WENT TO HELL.
SO I'M DONE WITH YOU GUYS, MAN,
AND I JUST WANT TO GO HOME.
JOE, WE MAY BE DONE, BUT, UH,
WE CAN'T LET YOU LEAVE.
YOU'RE UNDER ARREST
FOR D.U.I.
YOU HAD AN UNREGISTERED WEAPON
IN YOUR CAR.
YOU BOUGHT TICKETS FOR
YOUR FAMILY TO GO TO DISNEYLAND
AND ASKED YOUR WIFE TO LIE
AND SAY YOU WERE WITH HER
SO THAT YOU COULD ESTABLISH
AN ALIBI.
I DIDN'T BUY TICKETS
TO DISNEYLAND FOR NO ALIBI.
THEY WERE DONATED TO US
THROUGH OUR CHURCH.
DONATED TICKETS?
WHO DONATED THE TICKETS?
SOMEBODY. I DON'T KNOW.
WELL, DID THEY DONATE THEM
TO THE WHOLE FAMILY
OR JUST YOUR WIFE
AND KIDS?
ALL OF US, ANDY. WHY?
WELL, IF YOU DIDN'T BUY TICKETS
TO ESTABLISH AN ALIBI,
THERE SHOULD STILL BE ONE
LEFT OVER SINCE YOU DID NOT GO.
YEAH.
UH, WELL,
THEY GAVE ME MY STUFF BACK.
[ SNIFFLES ]
HERE.
HERE IT IS. OKAY?
IT'S GOOD THROUGH
THE END OF THE YEAR, ANDY.
IT'S YOURS.
TAKE IT. HAVE FUN.
OKAY, JOE.
I'M GONNA FOLLOW THROUGH ON
YOUR STORY ABOUT THESE TICKETS.
AND I HOPE
YOU'RE NOT LYING TO ME.
LET ME GET YOU
A CUP OF COFFEE.
SO, JOE'S EITHER A BETTER
CRIMINAL THAN WE THOUGHT,
OR HE'S WORKING WITH SOMEONE
WHO CARES ENOUGH ABOUT AN ALIBI
TO HAVE ONE AT THE READY,
AND THAT COULD BE ZIPPO.
WHO IS ALWAYS
WITH HIS MOM.
AND HAS
A CIVIL SUIT PENDING.
OH, WELL, THAT'S THIS
AFTERNOON'S HEADACHE.
OKAY, ZIPPO
LET HIS OTHER ACCOMPLICES
GO TO JAIL FOR HIM.
HE MIGHT TRY
AND DO THAT TO JOE.
I WILL ARREST MAURICE,
CHIEF,
BUT HELP US FIND
THAT 911 CALLER.
I'LL DO WHAT I CAN.
THANK YOU, CAPTAIN.
MM.
TAKE IT EASY.
YOU KNOW THAT
THIS IS GOING TO MAKE
YOUR EX-HUSBAND
MAD AS HELL.
I HOPE SO, LIEUTENANT.
THAT'S WHEN HE MAKES
HIS WORST MISTAKES.
[ CHUCKLES ]
Sykes: I'M NOT FINDING
ANY CONNECTION
BETWEEN JOE AND ZIPPO --
NO E-MAILS, NO PHONE CALLS,
NO INTERNET SEARCHES
THAT WOULD SHOW HE WAS FAMILIAR
WITH ZIPPO'S M.O.
MIKE?
SADLY, OUR BURNER PHONE
WAS PURCHASED
AT A DISCOUNT-ELECTRONICS STORE
SEVERAL YEARS AGO.
[ SIGHS ] WELL...
SOMETIMES, WHEN YOU DRIVE
INTO A BUNCH OF DEAD ENDS,
YOU QUIT!
AND SOMETIMES,
YOU START OVER.
SO,
WHAT ABOUT THE ACCELERANT?
DID FIRE EVER CONFIRM
THAT IT WAS LIGHTER FLUID?
LET'S CALL THEM, MIKE.
Winslow: I DON'T KNOW
HOW A RETIRED SCHOOLTEACHER
CAN HELP THE L.A.P.D.,
BUT I'LL FULLY COOPERATE.
I'D JUST LIKE TO CONFIRM
SOME OF YOUR RECENT CREDIT-CARD
PURCHASES, MR. WINSLOW.
OH?
SPECIFICALLY, DID YOU BUY
FOUR TICKETS TO DISNEYLAND
AND DONATE A THREE-DAY
RESERVATION AT AN ANAHEIM HOTEL
FOR THE USE
OF ESTELLE AND JOE WYATT?
OH, THAT. YES.
BUT I DIDN'T WANT THEM TO FEEL
OBLIGATED TO THANK ME,
SO I GAVE TO THE WYATTS
ANONYMOUSLY
THROUGH THE MINISTER
OF THEIR CHURCH.
THAT'S NOT --
WAS THAT ILLEGAL?
NO, NO,
IT'S A VERY NICE GESTURE,
BUT, MR. WINSLOW, I --
YOU LOOK FAMILIAR.
HAVE WE MET BEFORE?
[ CHUCKLES ]
NOT OFFICIALLY,
BUT I DIDN'T MISS A DAY
OF LUIS NAVARRO'S TRIAL.
BROKE MY GLASSES
IN THE FIGHT.
UH, THESE ARE
MY OLD ONES. HERE.
LOOK MORE LIKE MYSELF?
OH, YEAH.
I REMEMBER YOU NOW.
YOU'RE, UH, A FAMILY FRIEND
OF THE WYATTS, THEN?
NO, NO.
I JUST WATCH TRIALS.
SOUNDS LIKE
AN L.A. CLICHé, I KNOW.
BUT SINCE I LEFT TEACHING,
I'VE BEEN TRYING MY HAND
AT SCREENPLAYS.
ALWAYS WANTED TO WRITE
A COURTROOM DRAMA.
DIDN'T ACTUALLY EXPECT
TO GET KNOCKED AROUND IN ONE.
GUESS EVERY HOBBY
HAS ITS DRAWBACKS, HUH?
WELL, I'M SORRY
THAT WE WEREN'T ABLE TO ARRANGE
A HAPPIER ENDING FOR YOUR STORY,
MR. WINSLOW.
ANDY, COULD YOU TAKE
A SHORT STATEMENT, PLEASE?
THANK YOU FOR COMING IN.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
OH. I-IT'S THE LEAST
I COULD DO.
I MEAN, SERIOUSLY.
MR. WINSLOW, DID YOU JUST SAY,
"I MEAN, SERIOUSLY"?
WINSLOW: Then they threw him
in the trunk of a car
and took off.
OPERATOR: Sir, can you
describe the vehicle?
Oh, the car has those,
uh, uh -- what do you call it?
Uh, dollar hubcaps.
Uh, you guys got to do
something about this.
I mean, seriously.
Sir, can you give me
your name? Sir? Sir?
YOU'RE OFFERING MAURICE
SECOND-DEGREE MURDER
BASED ON
AN ANONYMOUS PHONE TIP?
IT'S NOT ANONYMOUS ANYMORE,
JACK. WE FOUND THE 911 CALLER.
AND HE IDENTIFIED ZIPPO
AS OUR KILLER.
AND YOUR 911 CALLER
JUST HAPPENED TO BE
IN FRONT
OF LUIS NAVARRO'S HOUSE
AT THE EXACT MOMENT
THAT LUIS WAS ATTACKED
BY MAURICE AND COMPANY?
HOW DOES YOUR, UH,
SO-CALLED WITNESS EXPLAIN THAT?
BECAUSE HE'S INTERESTED
IN SCREENWRITING,
AND HE SAT THROUGH
ALL OF LUIS' TRIAL.
AND AFTER THE VERDICT --
YOUR GUY DECIDES TO TAKE
A-A FEW TRIPS BY LUIS' HOUSE
FOR RESEARCH?!
HEY, YOU WANT TO CHECK
YOUR TONE, BUDDY, OKAY?
Hobbs: WE WANT ZIPPO,
AND THIS TIME,
OUR WITNESS
WON'T BE INTIMIDATED.
WHAT? WHO IS HE?
A FELLOW POLICE OFFICER?
AN EX-LAW-ENFORCEMENT
PROFESSIONAL PERHAPS?
HE'S A RETIRED TEACHER,
SIR,
A MAN WHO DEVOTED
HIS ENTIRE ADULT LIFE
TO EDUCATING CHILDREN
IN OUR INNER-CITY SCHOOLS.
AH.
OKAY,
A RETIRED TEACHER
WHO SITS AROUND
WATCHING TRIALS
I.D.'s MAURICE WASHINGTON
AS LUIS' KILLER.
NOW, SINCE YOU HAVEN'T
VOLUNTEERED THIS MAN'S NAME,
I'M GOING TO HAVE TO DO
A DEMONSTRATION
OF MY PSYCHIC POWERS.
IS THIS DO-GOODER,
THIS 911 CALLER,
BY ANY CHANCE
ED WINSLOW?
UNDERSTAND, I DON'T HAVE
MY CRYSTAL BALL HERE.
IT MAKES IT
A LITTLE HARDER.
BUT ED WINSLOW
WAS A TEACHER
AT CHESTER A. ARTHUR HIGH SCHOOL
FOR 30 YEARS,
WHICH YOU ALL KNOW WAS
A FEEDER SCHOOL FOR BOTH GANGS.
SADLY, ED WAS TERMINATED
FOR CAUSE
AND CONSIDERED INELIGIBLE
TO REHIRE.
AND HIS CIVIL CASE
AGAINST THE SCHOOL DISTRICT
WAS DISMISSED
BECAUSE OF A VIDEO
THAT SHOWED HIM
PHYSICALLY ATTACKING A STUDENT!
HO! WHAT A WITNESS!
AND WHY, JACK, DO YOU KNOW
ALL THIS ABOUT ED WINSLOW?
BECAUSE THAT NUTJOB,
COURT-WATCHING STALKER
WAS AT ZIPPO'S TRIAL
EVERY SINGLE DAY, TOO.
THAT'S HOW I KNOW.
SO HE I.D.'s
MAURICE WASHINGTON?
WHOA,
WHAT A SURPRISE.
AND ED
HAD IT OUT FOR HIM.
OH, GOD.
BECAUSE WHEN MY CLIENT
WAS FOUND NOT GUILTY,
WINSLOW THREATENED ME
ON THE STREET
AS AN ACCESSORY
TO MURDER.
SO I LOOKED HIM UP.
AND DON'T TAKE MY WORD FOR IT.
CHECK IT OUT.
MEANWHILE, PERHAPS ONE OF YOU
WOULD BE SO KIND
AS TO CONTACT
THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE?
I WOULD LIKE
TO CLAIM MY JACKPOT
FOR PROVING THE POLICE
AND THE D.A.'s OFFICE
CONSPIRED TO FRAME MY CLIENT
BY SOLICITING FALSE TESTIMONY.
I DON'T KNOW.
MAYBE I OUGHT TO MAKE A DEAL
WITH ED WINSLOW
TO TESTIFY
AGAINST ALL OF YOU.
OR MAYBE WE WILL MAKE A DEAL
WITH WINSLOW,
BECAUSE IF HE WASN'T
A WITNESS...
THE SON OF A BITCH
CALLED 911 HIMSELF
AND DESCRIBED
ZIPPO'S M.O.
AND HE KNEW IT REALLY WELL
BECAUSE HE WAS AT ZIPPO'S TRIAL.
OH, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO,
NO, NO, NO.
YOU'RE NOT GONNA
GET OUT OF THIS MESS
BY ARRESTING WINSLOW
FOR THIS MURDER.
YEAH, THAT IS EXACTLY
WHAT I AM GOING TO DO, JACK,
AND THANK YOU
FOR YOUR HELP.
BUT IF YOU'LL EXCUSE ME,
I HAVE TO VERIFY THE STORY
THAT YOU JUST GAVE US.
Tao: I ALREADY
HAVE IT RIGHT HERE --
THE COURT CASE,
WINSLOW vs. LAUSD.
IT WAS IN THE NEWS,
AND THERE'S A LINK TO A VIDEO.
LET'S SEE.
[ KEYBOARD CLACKING ]
WANT TO HIT SOMEBODY,
HUH?
I'LL SHOW YOU WHAT IT
FEELS LIKE TO GET HIT.
AAH!
THINK ABOUT THAT VIDEO
FOR A MINUTE
WHILE WE POINT OUT A COUPLE
OF OTHER THINGS THAT BOTHER US.
Sharon:
FOR INSTANCE, YOUR 911 CALL,
WHICH JUST HAPPENED
TO INCLUDE ZIPPO'S M.O.
AND MAYBE WE'LL FIND
THAT YOU CALLED
THE LOS ANGELES TIMES, TOO,
BECAUSE YOU WANTED TO WATCH
THE GANG KIDS THAT GOT YOU FIRED
SHOOT AT EACH OTHER!
SOMEONE HAD TO TELL THE MEDIA
ABOUT WHAT WAS GOING ON!
WE JUST SAW
WHY YOU HATE THEM.
THAT VIDEO DOESN'T SHOW
WHAT REALLY HAPPENED.
THAT BOY ATTACKED ANOTHER
STUDENT IN MY CLASSROOM!
YOU WERE ANGRY, YELLED,
PULLED HIM OUT OF HIS SEAT!
MAYBE I SHOUTED
OR RAISED MY VOICE,
BUT I NEVER, NEVER CALLED HIM
A "WETBACK." HE MADE THAT UP.
AND YET NOT ONE OF THE STUDENTS
WHO WITNESSED THIS INCIDENT
CAME FORWARD
IN YOUR DEFENSE.
PROBABLY BECAUSE THEY ALL KNOW
YOU'RE A RACIST.
NO!
THEY DIDN'T TALK BECAUSE THAT
LITTLE BASTARD WAS IN A GANG!
MY STUDENTS
WERE SCARED SILENT.
I WONDER IF A JURY
WOULD SEE IT THAT WAY.
[ SIGHS ] YOU WANT ME
TO IMAGINE A JURY? OKAY.
IF I DID IT,
THAT JURY WOULD KNOW
LUIS KILLED
AN 18-YEAR-OLD BOY
FOR NO OTHER REASON
THAN TO GET BULLSHIT RESPECT
FROM HIS
LOW-RENT HOMIES.
IF I DID IT,
THE JURY WOULD HEAR
HOW I TRIED TO SEND THE WYATT
FAMILY FAR ENOUGH AWAY
SO THAT NONE OF THEM
WOULD HAVE TO SUFFER
THE INDIGNITY
OF BEING SUSPECTS.
AND MY PEERS WOULD HEAR
HOW THE JUSTICE SYSTEM,
FROM THE LAWYERS,
TO THE JUDGE, TO YOU,
FAILED THE CURTIS WYATT.
[ SIGHS ] HE'S NOT WRONG.
WE DID SCREW UP.
HE'S NOT JUST A VIGILANTE,
THOUGH.
GOOD LUCK PROVING
ANY OF THIS IN COURT.
BECAUSE I JUST IMAGINED
THE JURY NOTICING
ALL YOUR EVIDENCE
IS CIRCUMSTANTIAL.
NOT QUITE ALL
CIRCUMSTANTIAL.
SIR, WE COULD RUN THIS VIDEO
FOR YOU AGAIN,
BUT I THINK YOU ALREADY KNOW
WHAT WE'D SEE.
DON'T YOU?
BECAUSE THAT BOY
THAT YOU PULLED OUT OF HIS CHAIR
AND THREW ON THE FLOOR...
THE BOY THAT COST YOU YOUR JOB
AND YOUR PENSION...
THAT BOY
WAS LUIS NAVARRO.
THE JURY WILL HEAR THAT,
TOO, SIR.
YOU'RE FAMILIAR
WITH D.D.A. HOBBS.
YOU'VE WATCHED HER WORK
FOR YEARS. SHE'S HERE.
TO STOP THE GANG VIOLENCE
THAT YOU STARTED,
WE'LL GIVE YOU A DEAL --
SECOND-DEGREE MURDER,
17 YEARS TO LIFE.
OR WE CAN ARREST YOU
AND PUT YOU IN COUNTY,
SEE HOW MANY OF YOUR EX-STUDENTS
YOU RUN INTO THERE.
YOU -- YOU -- YOU --
YOU CAN'T DO THAT.
YOU HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY
TO PROTECT ME.
IF YOU DID IT.
[ SIGHS ]
HOW MANY LIVES WERE YOU PREPARED
TO LET LUIS NAVARRO RUIN
BEFORE YOU FINALLY PUT HIM
WHERE HE BELONGED?
[ SCOFFS ] YOU'D RATHER GO
AFTER ME THAN ZIPPO?
NO.
LET THE JURY DECIDE IF YOU'RE
MAKING THE RIGHT DECISION.
I WANT MY DAY IN COURT.
OH,
I CAN GIVE HIM THAT.
[ SIGHS ]
Tao:
WELL, WHEN HE CALMS DOWN,
MAYBE A DEAL WILL LOOK BETTER
THAN THE DEATH PENALTY.
I DON'T KNOW.
THIS GUY DOESN'T STRIKE ME
AS SOMEONE WHO KNOWS
HOW TO GIVE UP
WHEN HE'S BEHIND.
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
OH.
EXCUSE ME.
[ DOOR CLOSES ]
Flynn: YEAH, RELEASE ZIPPO
TO HIS DIRTBAG ATTORNEY
AND TELL JOE THAT I'M COMING
DOWN TO DRIVE HIM HOME.
WHAT IS THIS?
SOME KIND OF A JOKE?
YOU -- YOU DIDN'T PRINT UP
A RETIREMENT APPLICATION?
OH, THAT'S MINE.
FORGOT ALL ABOUT IT.
AND IT'S NOT
ABOUT RETIRING.
IT'S ABOUT THE DEFERRED
PENSION PROGRAM.
MY BUSINESS MANAGER
WANTS TO CHECK IT OUT.
[ Chuckling ] WHAT?
DEFERRED PENSION?
WHAT IS THAT?
WELL, IDEALLY, YOU PUT AWAY
MORE MONEY FROM YOUR PAYCHECK
SO YOU CAN SAVE IT TAX-FREE
UNTIL YOU RETIRE.
UH, WHAT?
YOU HAVE A BUSINESS MANAGER?
WELL, HE DEALS MAINLY
WITH MY CONSULTING FEES
FROM "BADGE OF JUSTICE."
Flynn: OH, MY GOD.
HOW MUCH DO YOU MAKE
ON THIS SHOW, ANYWAY?
WELL, MY BUSINESS MANAGER
SAID [SIGHS]
I SHOULDN'T TALK ABOUT IT.
Provenza: WAIT, WAIT, WAIT.
SO YOU'RE NOT THINKING
ABOUT CALLING IT QUITS?
OF COURSE I THINK ABOUT IT --
EVERY DAY.
BUT THE TRUTH IS,
I'VE GIVEN UP SO MUCH OF MY LIFE
FOR THIS JOB,
INCLUDING A DECENT RELATIONSHIP
WITH MY CHILDREN
AND MOST OF MY FAITH
IN THE HUMAN RACE,
THAT THERE'S...NO PLACE ELSE
ON EARTH THAT I FIT IN.
NOW,
THAT'S THE RIGHT ATTITUDE.
OH.
HOW WAS YOUR LAST DAY
WITH JEFF?
HORRIBLE.
HORRIBLE? WHY?
BECAUSE...BEFORE I DROPPED HIM
OFF AT THE AIRPORT,
I ASKED HIM OUT.
AND?
I'M TOO YOUNG FOR HIM.
OR THAT'S WHAT HE SAID.
I DON'T KNOW.
MAYBE HE JUST DOESN'T LIKE ME
THAT MUCH. [ SIGHS ]
I SEE.
ANYWAY, UH,
YOU WERE RIGHT.
ASKING HIM OUT
WAS THE BEST THING I COULD DO
BECAUSE NOW I KNOW.
BUT, LIKE, HAVING SOMEONE
TELL YOU STRAIGHT TO YOUR FACE
THAT THEY'RE NOT INTERESTED
REALLY SUCKS.
THE PEOPLE WE LIKE DON'T ALWAYS
LIKE US BACK, I KNOW,
BUT THE SOONER YOU DEAL
WITH THE TRUTH,
THE SOONER YOU CAN
MOVE ON.
YEAH, BUT, LIKE, MOVING ON
IS THE HARDEST PART.
NOT MOVING ON
CAN BE HARDER.
ALTHOUGH, RIGHT NOW,
YOU PROBABLY FEEL A LITTLE --
WOUNDED? CRUSHED?
LIKE I WASTED WHOLE WEEKS
CARING ABOUT SOMEONE
WHO COULDN'T CARE LESS?
WOULD A HAMBURGER HELP YOU
WITH THAT, BECKIN?
[ BREATHES DEEPLY ]
WELL, MOM...
IT COULDN'T HURT,
YOU KNOW?
IT COULDN'T HURT.
[ SIGHS DEEPLY ]